Pygmalion
=========

Pygmalion is a code indexing tool based on libclang for C and C++. The
intention is to deliver the same kind of high quality code navigation
that expensive commercial IDEs give you, accessible in a command-line
form that fits the UNIX mindset and is easy to integrate into your
editor of choice. Pygmalion consists of several utilities that work
together:

* `pygmalion` is the primary command-line interface to
  Pygmalion. Given a location in the source code, it can print
  information about the item found there. This includes definitions,
  references, the inheritance hierachy, callers and callees of
  functions, and other useful data.  It can also provide metadata like
  the compiler flags used for compiling a file, or generate a clang
  compilation database or TAGS file for use with external
  tools.

* `pygmake` is a wrapper for `make` that assists with indexing. In
  particular, it records the actual compiler flags used for compiling
  each file, ensuring that the index of each file is as accurate as
  possible. You don't need to use `pygmake`; you can set default
  compiler flags in `pygmalion.yaml`, use `pygmalion index` to
  manually record compiler flags for specific files, or import a
  compilation database generated by another tool. However, `pygmake`
  makes things much easier on large projects with complicated build
  systems.

* `pygd` is the indexing daemon. It needs to be running for the other
  tools to work; you can run it by executing `pygmalion start` at
  the root of the project you want to index.  It will automatically
  index files that are touched in the current directory, so you just
  need to save for Pygmalion to see your changes. `pygd` invokes
  `pygindex-clang` to do the actual indexing. In the long term,
  support for other indexers and more languages will be added.

Check the `examples/` directory to see how to integrate Pygmalion with
other tools, including `emacs` with
[irony-mode](https://github.com/Sarcasm/irony-mode) and `vim` with
[YouCompleteMe](https://github.com/Valloric/YouCompleteMe).

Requirements
============

- The Haskell Platform 2013.2.0. On OS X, you can install it via
  homebrew with `brew install haskell-platform`. On Ubuntu 13.10,
  `sudo apt-get install haskell-platform` should suffice. On other
  platforms, check [here](http://www.haskell.org/platform/).

- Up-to-date Haskell LibClang bindings. For now you'll need to build
  from source using the `llvm3.4` branch
  [on Github](https://github.com/chetant/LibClang/tree/llvm3.4), but I
  intend to merge that branch into the main repo soon.

Build Instructions
==================

Run `make`. This will build the project and install it to your cabal
executables directory, by default usually `~/.cabal/bin`. You may need
to add this to your path.

Usage
=====

Change to the root of the project you want to index and run `pygmalion init`
to initialize a `.pygmalion` directory there. Pygmalion stores
all of the information about the project in this directory, including
the configuration file `pygmalion.yaml` which you can customize if
needed. (See the next section.) For simple `make`-based projects, the
default configuration should be enough.

To actually index the project, run `pygmalion start` to start the
indexing daemon. Pygmalion will immediately start indexing your
project. For most projects, the default compiler flags will result in
a poor quality index, so if you didn't specify appropriate flags in
the configuration file it's advisable to immediately run a complete
rebuild using `pygmake`. This will gather accurate compiler flags and
greatly improve the quality of the index.

You can start using `pygmalion` queries to navigate the code in your
project immediately. As new indexing results come in, results will
become available for more and more of your project. For very large
projects, this may take a while, but once you have the initial index
the indexing daemon will automatically keep it up to date as you make
changes to the source, check out branches, and pull in others'
changes.

Configuring Pygmalion
=====================

`pygmalion init` will create a default configuration file in
`.pygmalion/pygmalion.yaml` in your project root. You can customize
this as needed. You will definitely need to if you are using a build
system other than `make`, such as `cmake`, or compilers other than
`clang` and `clang++`.

The best source of information on the options is currently
`examples/pygmalion.yaml.default` in the Pygmalion source tree, but
these docs will be improved soon.

Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

On Linux I get the error 'addWatch: resource exhausted (No space left on device)'.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The default inotify watch limit is too small for your
project. Unfortunately, on many Linux installations the limit is
unreasonably low by default. Try again after running
`sudo sh -c 'echo 1048576 > /proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches'`.
You can make this fix permanent by adding
`fs.inotify.max_user_watches=1048576` to `/etc/sysctl.conf`.
